# CCPM Informatics Operations (I/O) Onboarding Information

# Mission Statement

To deliver reliable software and data to support CCPM clinical and research efforts while overseeing the development and implementation of informatics pipelines that process raw genotyping data. Ensure those pipelines accurately and reproducibly process genetic data for delivery into patients’ records for clinical care.

# Expectations

**Your role:** We expect that you will take primary responsibility for the success of your pipeline development, deployment, and maintenance as well as career development.
As a member of I/O, you are expected to participate fully in the team.
In general, I/O members are expected to follow weekday working hours that include 9:30AM to 4:00PM in their local timezone to facilitate discussion within the group.
We will aim to schedule meetings that respect these hours to the extent possible between the Eastern and Pacific timezones, recognizing that certain meetings with vendors may fall outside of these hours in certain timezones.
In no cases should recurring meetings be scheduled that routinely fall outside of 8:00AM to 5:00PM for any I/O member working within the continental United States.

**Director's role:** The director’s goal is to facilitate your success as well as that of our pipelines.
Within each pipeline, the director will serve as a sounding board for ideas, will help you plan projects, and contribute as needed to complete the projects.
To facilitate your success, the director will help you to plan your training, to devise a career plan that can take you to where you want to go, to advise you on your project-risk portfolio, and to provide guidance on other elements of career and project development as needed.

**Deadlines:** I/O has worked hard to develop high-quality pipelines in a timely manner especially in the clinical space.
For clinical pipelines, it is critical that we complete internal testing and validation prior to deadlines negotiated with UCHealth.
Abstracts for meetings must be shared with all co-authors, including the director, at least one week prior to the deadline for submission.
Any abstracts that use data generated by Regeneron Genotyping Center (RGC) must be shared with all co-authors 5 weeks prior to deadline for submission and submitted to RGC 30 days prior to the deadline for submission.
Failure to abide by this guideline will result in missing whatever the opportunity in question is.

**Authorship:** I/O follows the [ICMJE's Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals](https://www.icmje.org/recommendations/browse/roles-and-responsibilities/defining-the-role-of-authors-and-contributors.html) defintions of the roles of authors and contributors to our manuscripts.

**Travel and professional development:** We encourage I/O members to pursue professional development.
- I/O members are eligible to apply to attend [research conferences](https://olucdenver.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/CCPM-Team/Shared%20Documents/General/Travel%20%26%20Professional%20Development/CCPM-sponsored%20research%20travel-FINAL-eff.%201.27.23.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=ODuiUf), pending available funding.
- I/O members are also eligible to apply to seek [professional development](https://olucdenver.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/CCPM-Team/Shared%20Documents/General/Travel%20%26%20Professional%20Development/CCPM%20staff%20professional%20development%20funds%20policy.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=crDolA).

# Communication

## General

**Slack:** We use slack for rapid communication within I/O.
If you plan on sending an e-mail to someone within the lab, try a slack message instead.
This helps to keep communications in one place, and the director commits to respond to slacks (not necessarily immediately, but the same guarantee is not made for e-mail).

**Projects:** By the nature of our work, I/O members will often have the opportunity to participate in projects managed via private or publicly accessible source code repositories.
In these cases, I/O members are expected to: follow the code of conduct; expect that private repositories will be world accessible; and to communicate via the project-specific medium
For example, when one I/O member reports an issue on a project on GitHub, it would not be appropriate for another lab member to reply "I'll drop by your desk and show you how to solve that."
It would be most appropriate for the conversation to take place on GitHub issues.

**Accounts:** I/O members are expected to have accounts for the following and be members of the specified (organizations) if applicable:

+ GitHub (CCPM-IO)
+ Slack (IO)

## Meetings

**Lab Meetings:**
- Lab meetings are scheduled for one hour, 10:00 AM on Tuesdays. All members of I/O are expected to attend if possible. Meetings are expected to be a supportive environment for learning, constructive criticism, help, and scientific discussions. 

**Additional Meetings:**
1. A weekly meeting at 1:00 PM MT Tuesday afternoon with the Biobank team to present I/O updates and receive feedback to improve I/O pipelines.
2. A weekly meeting at 1:00 PM MT Wednesday afternoon with select members of research team to discuss research freeze pipelines.
3. A monthly meeting at 10:00 AM MT first Friday of every month with CCPM research team to discuss updates and collaboration opportunities.

**Ad-Hoc Meetings:** Any member can add an ad hoc meeting as needed.
- Ad hoc meetings are meant to help I/O members get advice and help on projects, prepare for presentations, etc.

**Individual Meetings:** We schedule weekly individual meetings.
 Once you join the team, contact I/O director to set up a time.
 We don’t reschedule these meetings by default if one of the parties (director or you) are out of town, so if you do want to meet in a week but travel conflicts, contact director to reschedule.
 The goal of the weekly meeting is to:

 1.  Discuss challenges.
 2.  Plan strategy (project related, personal career, etc).

**Quarterly Self Reflection:** Every three months I/O members will individually meet with the director to discuss their existing goals, current progress made and set goals for the next interval.
To prepare for these meetings staff are required to create an activity report that contains any of the following information (if applicable):

- goals for next session: What would you like to accomplish by the end of next cycle?
- self-reflection. What do you regard as your strengths and as areas where you need improvement?
- publications/presentations: submitted/accepted/published
- software releases
- other honors

The report should be in the form of a plain text file, markdown file, or PDF and the file should be called lastname-reflection-yearmonth (e.g. Rafaels-reflection-202310.txt).
Submit the report in a direct message to the director via slack.

## Initial onboarding

**Required HIPAA trainings:**
CCPM clinical pipelines will require access to private health information (PHI). I/O members will be expected to do the following prior to getting access to CCPM data.

1. [CITI](https://www.citiprogram.org/) training:

+ Biomedical Responsible Conduct of Research Course
+ Group 1: Biomedical Investigators, Basic Course
+ CITI Health Information Privacy and Security for Clinical Investigators

2. Complete [conflict of interest](https://research.cuanschutz.edu/regulatory-compliance/home/conflict-of-interest/coi-home#ft-coi-form-0) form.

3. Upload a PDF copy of CV to [eRA(InfoEd)](https://era.cu.edu/login.asp) (under ‘My Profile’ (upper left), click ‘Biosketch’ under the Biography side tab, and then click ‘Add’ in the upper right). 

**Access to Eureka:**
[Eureka](https://www.healthdatacompass.org/cloud-analytics-infrastructure) is an analytic infrastructure service provided by Health Data Compass to quickly provision virtual machines in the Google Cloud for Compass users that are HIPAA compliant and scalable with many analytic capabilities.
I/O uses Eureka to develop, test, deploy, and maintain clinical pipelines.

- Once HIPAA trainings are complete, the I/O director will add you to the CCPM-IO protocol, and then request access to the following Eureka servers

+ [Eureka Google Cloud high performance computing (HPC) general purpose](https://hdchpcprodtis1-hpc-1.hdcuser.org/)
+ [Eureka Google Cloud high performance computing (HPC) clinical pipelines](https://hdchpcprodtis1-hpc-1.hdcuser.org/)
+ [Eureka RStudio virtual machine (VM) (useful for querying electronic health records)](https://hdcekaprodtis1-r-app-1.hdcuser.org/)
+ [Eureka virtual machine (VM)](https://hdcekaprodtis1-nx-app-1.hdcuser.org/)

- You will then be asked to complete [Compass staff training](https://olucdenver.sharepoint.com/compass/team/SitePages/Compass-Staff-Training-Dashboard.aspx?CT=1699638580421&OR=OWA-NT&CID=d9447a09-20ff-7b7e-eb2e-ec606c132b00).
- Health data compass provides instructions to get started for [Eureka HPC](https://www.healthdatacompass.org/cloud-analytics-infrastructure/using-eureka-hpc) and [Eureka VM](https://www.healthdatacompass.org/cloud-analytics-infrastructure/using-eureka-app-vm) services. 

**Access to Alpine:**
[Alpine](https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/clusters/alpine/index.html) is a high performance computing (HPC) cluster maintained by University of Colorado Boulder which CCPM I/O uses in partnership with the CCPM-Research team to manage de-identified CCPM data for research pipelines.

To get access to Alpine and the [petalibrary](https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/storage/petalibrary/index.html), do the following:

1) Apply for [access](https://curc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/access/amc-access.html) to Alpine.
2) Contact [Jonathan Shortt](jonathan.shortt@cuanschutz.edu) to get access to CCPM instance of petalibrary.

**Access to Biobank server:**
The [CCPM-Biobank server](pcifs334.ucdenver.pvt/biobank$) contains data generated by the CCPM-Biobank which must get transferred to Eureka.

- Once you are added to CCPM-IO protocol, the director will make a request to add you to the CCPM-Biobank server.







